hello guys and welcome to my channel I
am filming from Palo Alto today Palo
Alto
is be centered Silicon Valley and every
entrepreneur every setup person wants to
come here and raise some money and
basically this video will be about
studying your own company because many
of you asked how I started my company
and what did I do to get my company into
the States so if you're interested in
this topic please continue watching this
video now the day when I started my
company together with my co-founder was
back in 2011 and that was in Russia I
was still in my fourth year studies in
the university and I was crazy about
learning languages and I'm I still am
right now and I went when it was 14 I
went to the UK to learn English I won
this exchange program in our school so I
got to go there completely free and then
when I was 18 I decided to do the same
for German language and I organized the
trip myself so found the school and
ended up saving a lot of money because
there were a lot of offline agents who
offered that so you could go to an
agency and you know book your trip and
they would charge your like 300 dollars
for that and I did everything myself
took me a while but I figured it out and
then I realized that I could help other
students do the same and also I was
surprised that not many people know that
you can actually go to a country where
the language is spoken learn it become
proficient and some my co-founder was
actually the person who told me hey we
need to start so that was I was 21 2011
but I still needed a kick in the ass you
know because I'm a female so I'm a girl
and I fear a lot of things
actually I have never worked in a big
company so I had no experience and I
felt maybe I should get a job first and
you know figure out how things work but
he said no we're gonna start now
and we had a squirrel and then one of
the girls that we studied with told me
that she wanted to go to London to learn
English and she needed help and this is
when we went to register a company and I
wouldn't say the first client was easy
like I've made so many mistakes with her
it took me a while to open an
international bank account in Russia and
you know compared to America
a Russian process studying a company is
so complicated and you know sending
money abroad requires a lot of documents
but we started it so we basically
started a company and imagine what all
of the people who studied with me if
they went on to work for a bank they
were earning their first salary and I
was like sitting at home in my parents
house and writing some text for a
website without any idea if anyone is
going to use it and this was like this
was a little discouraging so we had that
first climb then we had the second
client straightaway also a guy who
studied with us but you know that wasn't
enough there was just enough to pay for
a developer to build a really simple
website and that was it
and basically many people who surrounded
me told me hey marina you should
probably get a job because you know
people get older and you need to think
about your retirement but I'm really
thankful to Michael hunter because he
said this is real business and we're
gonna do that so we were still studying
and running the company and I had my
office phone which was actually my
mobile phone and when clients called I
had to run out of the lecture into a
university corridor and pretend that I'm
in the office and be all professional
like hey of course we can need blah blah
blah
that was super funny and so during the
first year we only managed to get three
clients and you know very little money
and and this was the toughest year ever
so if your guys are thinking of studying
your own company be prepared that
first year will be a complete failure
like everybody around is going to tell
you you need to stop you need to think
of something else and maybe running your
own company is not the best thing you
can do but stay there like if you think
that you know what I did I just read the
reviews of those three people who use
their service who actually went abroad
to learn languages I read the reviews
and I read how it changed their lives
and I was so inspired to continue and I
think this is what you can do like rely
on the first clients and see the actual
impact that you making with your company
so during the second year we got this
group from my school where I studied we
got that group to travel through us and
that was like 15 clients and we were
able to rent a table in a co-working
space and this is when things started to
actually you know grow second year I
even hired a person to help me but I
still did everything myself like all of
the processing all of the marketing
talking to clients my co-founder helped
me with all of the legal stuff with
accounting so basically two of us
working on the company just me working
with a client and the third year were
was amazing that was 2013 we started
another office in a different city in
Russia instead of the third office in
another city in Russia and this is when
we realized I'm actually going to turn
around here guys because somebody's you
know repairing something there and I
don't want to that to make noise so
during the third year we realized that
everyone to grow if you want to build a
big company there is no way we want to
open offices in different cities because
that required a lot of traveling you
know back and forth and I hated
travelling especially to Moscow like
Moscow is a cool town but in winter it
gets so cold so in winter when I'm in
Russia I try to stay inside so basically
we thought we need to build something
online and we need to enable people from
all over the world to book through a
platform and the idea was like if you're
looking for school yourself like when I
was googling my German school there are
so many schools
and their websites are so complicated
but think of you know we have
booking.com for the hotels but there is
no like big booking home for those
language courses abroad and we were like
we should make it especially in
russian-speaking countries so we're the
first and the only people doing that um
and yes so we started building the
platform and that took a little while
because we were profitable but not that
profitable because you imagine how much
the developer costs he costs a lot of
money so we're only able to hire
part-time developers and a first
developer he wrote a lot of code but
then we realized it doesn't work so we
had to fire him we had to so we
basically he basically just left and we
had to do leave the whole code and you
know just admit that we lost a lot of
money and then in 2014 we realized okay
we might be able to build the platform
with our own money but we won't be able
to market it so we started to look for
investors and we were funding in Russia
and many people told us like there was a
guy who was a CEO of like of the largest
accelerators in Russia
schools for startups and he listened to
my pitch in his head
you know the best thing you can do is
close your company I was like thank you
I was I was really stressed about that
comment and we had a couple of offers
from investors and those offers like
we're going to take half of your company
and you're not going to be managing
anything so we had just to say no and
for you to realize my co-founder already
went to work for another company because
we used his salary to pay to our
developers into our employees and then
we decided to race
abroad and we decided to apply for
foreign accelerators like Y Combinator
500 startups tech stars and so we were
doing a lot of fundraising we're
traveling a lot to meet with the
investors and finally I go this intro to
a meta John Raimi I don't know John if
you ever watch this videos but thank you
so much she changed our lives he changed
lives of three people Bill
the company and you basically changed my
life
yeah thanks a lot and so we met that guy
he came to st. Petersburg and I pitched
him my company and he was like you know
um I know somebody who might be
interested he works as she works at 500
setups and I'm going to introduce you to
her and you can pitch her company and
the next day 4:00 a.m. in Russia I'm
sitting my pajamas in the kitchen and
having this cup call with Poornima
Freneau I don't know if you're watching
this video but thank you so much and for
anyways was one of the mentors and 500
startups and we talked to her and she
was like oh guys I just returned from
Chile I was learning Spanish there and
and I was wondering why nobody's doing
this platform like there are some online
agencies but there is nothing like what
you guys are doing and we got accepted
and this meant that we went to
California to Mountain View where the
program took part they invested this is
not a secret $100,000 and this was like
ooh a big big rise for us we were
struggling for two years just to arrive
at that moment when we came to the
States registered a company in the
States received investment and we had
more Angels joining the round and we
started growing basically if you go
linguae trip now you can see that we
have one three hundred schools all over
the world and we provide lower prices
than anyone else because we send a lot
of clients to particular schools and
they say hey because he sent so many
students we're going to give you low
prices and this is basically how it
works so you get an Expedia or booking
comm for those language schools abroad
and another great thing I was able to we
were able to secure work visas in the
States because our company sponsored us
which is also pretty cool ah and yes
right now linguae trip is not just
booking platform for language courses
will so help people learn English by
Skype you know Jonathan he's always
present with my channel helping us a lot
and will also help them with admissions
into American universities and actually
my story with MBA like when I got
admitted to all of the American
universities with full financial aid the
idea behind that
was I wanted my company to be in the
States and because we were trying to
raise money but nobody invested I
thought maybe I should just take myself
to the states and try and call my
company from here and but the same month
like March 2015
13th of March or something I receive an
offer from Johns Hopkins University 17th
of March I receive an offer with full
financial aid from the University of
Florida to do my MBA 28th of March I'm
pretty sure I'm going to Florida I'm
exploring this Gainesville city and I'm
like going to Florida to study and like
end on March 30 we receive investment
offer from her pound reset ups and there
is no way I can do everything together
via the decision was obvious that I have
to grow my company ah and yeah so I
declined offers from the University I
feel so terrible about it because we
were really and as I said I exchanged a
lot of emails with the admissions
committee and they were amazing people
they also gave me some advice with
running company so basically that was it
and yeah so this is this is my story of
starting my own company
it's a long way back in 2011 five years
ago we were just you know two people
believing in what we do and right now
I'm in California in a beautiful in
beautiful Palo Alto so I would say guys
believe in yourself when you start your
company and do not rely on what other
people tell you to rely on your
customers and their feedback and try to
sell as fast as you can because many
entrepreneurs do those mistakes when
they just build builds building company
but they never start selling and so the
first thing you need to do is actually
sell because we made our first sale when
we didn't have an office didn't have a
website just nothing which is to her
friend on a trip to London so thank you
guys for watching this video don't
forget to subscribe and like and yeah
share what you think about this story
and if you ever think of learning
languages abroad if you ever think of
coming to San Francisco to see me
very welcome to buca lingo trip and you
know become a part of a great community
of people who travel the world and learn
languages and get admitted to foreign
universities and get jobs abroad thank
you so much for watching this and I'll
see you in the next videos bye bye